Hopefully you had a good time
loading data in a Remix app.
So our objective here is we just wanna
show a list of the posts that we have.
And I gave you some posts to use.
Just this, this is our data, oops.
So we'll go into app > routes >
posts > index, and here's my data.
And then we've got our JSX
that we can render for this.
So we'll just do that here and
bring in  from "@remix-run/react".
And then I guess we can
just say data.posts, right?
And we're done, it works.
I'm just kidding,
that's not how you do it.
Because then you'd have to change your
code every time you wanted to write a new
blog post, right?
That would be silly, I wouldn't do that.
So no, we're gonna use
an actual API from Remix, and
it's a convention, and that is to
export a function called loader.
And it's actually typically
an async function.
Very rarely will this not
be an async function, so
we'll just stick an async on there.
And then actually,
you know what I wanna do?
I'm gonna make an async
function called getPosts,
and that is gonna get me all of this.
There we go, so
now I have my posts, getPosts, and
I'm going to return a response.
So the loader accepts a couple of
things we'll talk about later, and
returns a response.
So we return a new Response.
And we're gonna return a JSON response so
that our client can get
that JSON response.
So I'm gonna say JSON.stringify posts.
And then I'll add a header with
"Content-Type": "application/json".
Cool, so I'm sending that response back.
And then in my posts, I'm going to get.
Or in my post component,
I'm gonna get my posts
from useLoader, come on, useLoaderData.
And now I've got my post there, cool.
Refresh, boom, there it is.
Okay, so
let's look at the code really quick,
cuz I went through that pretty quick.
We're gonna make some
modifications to this as well.
So the loader is responsible for
loading data.
And it runs on the server,
and only the server, okay?
And so you have access to database,
you have access to private keys that you
don't want shared in the wide, wide world.
You can read the file system if you're not
running in a serverless environment or
whatever, where that would make sense.
Whatever you want to, your only
responsibility is to return a response.
And the vast majority of the time,
that response should be
a application/json response.
So this looks like a fair
bit of boilerplate.
If that's what I do in almost every one
of my loaders, it would be really nice if
we had a little helper function to
help us with that, and so we do.
json, and yeah, none of these is correct.
It should come from @remix-run/node, so
we'll import
from '@remix-run/node'.
There we go, cool, and
then we say json(posts), and
that effectively does the same thing.
But I want to call out something special
here, something special about Remix.
Remix is not just another framework, okay?
It is a framework that exposes
the web platform to you.
So where a lot of libraries
that I've written and
frameworks that have been written
take the web platform APIs and
wrap them in what they think is a nicer,
cleaner API.
Remix instead exposes
the web platform API.
And in fact, we're running an Express
server under the hood right here.
But you can also, again, run on Dino,
or you can run on Cloudfare Workers or
wherever.
I always mix up Fastify and Fastly.
One of them's a CDN, the other's
a web framework or a node framework.
But wherever you're running, and they all
have their different API, like Netlify
functions or cell functions, they all
have different APIs for request response.
What Remix does is it actually acts
like a jQuery for the platform, and
it turns all of those request responses
into a web fetch request response.
And so if you dive into this response,
then you see this is the Fetch API.
We make the Fetch API global and
actually Node 18,
I think I believe it has Fetch built in,
but I believe it also makes these global.
And so wherever you are, we make
the response global so that you can work
directly with request response,
regardless of where you're deploying to.
I think this is a really powerful
piece of what makes Remix special.
So because we do this a lot,
we have a little utility for that because
that would just be super annoying to have
to do this over and over again, okay?
So that was the first
part of the exercise.
And what I typically do actually,
I typically like to send back
an object rather than just the array.
So I'm gonna send back an object with
a property of posts is one change I
wanna make.
Now we wanna, I think the next one
was to improve the TypeScript piece.
So we wanna make it so that TypeScript
isn't yelling at us about this.
And of course, we could say any,
and now TypeScript's not yelling.
But we wanna actually make
TypeScript be helpful.
We're not just saying hey,
TypeScript, hush.
We want to have TypeScript
to help us because I could
very easily make a mistake like that,
right?
And now my link is pointing to the wrong
place, it's pointing to undefined.
I have no way of knowing
that that's happening.
So here's how you do this with Remix.
It just recently got this good, and
so I'm really excited to show you.
typeof loader, boom, and now you have
type safety across the network chasm.
That's pretty rad, I think that's
kinda nice, I like that a lot.
And what's interesting here is
that Remix will ensure that
because Remix is managing the network
chasm, we can rely on this.
The only situation where you
could end up with a type
error that goes from the loader
to the client when you're using
this is if some EMP hit and
it flipped a bit or something.
So sorry, we can't protect you from
natural disasters or anything.
But other than that,
you're pretty dang type safe just by
adding typeof loader to
your useLoaderData call.
So I think that's pretty neat.
And if I decided, hey, you know what?
Instead of slug,
I wanna have this be the Id.
Well, now I'm getting type errors for
that.
Id, hurray.
It's amazing, it really is cool.